## STUDENT INDUCTION PROGGRAME (2024-25)
# NAME - Rajnadar singh
# BRANCH - computer science and engineering [CSE}
# MYSELF
Hi everyone! I am Rajnadar singh currently pursuing B.Tech in Computer science and engineering at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana. I completed my 12th grades at akal academy kaleke achieving 84%. We have come to a new phase of our life where our new journey begins, everyone is finding their own path and working hard for their goals. Let’s just all work hard hoping to see our future self as a successful person.
# Hobbies
Learning
Reading 
Creative writing
## Report Of Induction Program

# DAY 1 
On my first day of induction programme , I first went to Gurudwara where the kirtan and ardas was going to held. i took off my shoes and washed my hands. Then, I covered my head and moved inside the hall. The kirtan and ardas made me feel so good and relaxing. It made me feel that I didn’t choose this but Waheguru Ji had chosen it for me. So, with a brave heart and strong mind I attended it and came outside the hall after it ended. Then I took the refreshments offered by the college which were really good. After attending kirtan , I went to the Auditorium. Before entering the auditorium, I got a file bag, which was for all students. In the bag, There was brochure about the college, an invitation letter for me, a pen and a notepad. I took it and went inside the auditorium. The auditorium was very calm, pleasent and was creatively structured. Then, all teachers and seniors came up there. After it, Our respected Principle sir, Dr. Sehijpal Singh Guru, Our Director sir, NSET S.Inderpal Singh along with our alumna Er.Jiwandeep Singh, PCS officer, came there to greet and interact with all of us. First, Our principal sir came and motivated us to make the best use of this platform. Then, Our director sir introduced us to the legendry and illustrious history of this instituion, emphasizing its 100 years of shaping brilliant minds. He highlighted the first 36 years, which were dedicated in the establishment of this instituion. Then, our one of the alumni, now as a PCS officer, who was the “Guest Of Honor” of that day, illustrated us the imporatnce of “what”, “how” and most imporant “My why”. One of the great question which we all should ask from ourselves at the beginning of anything so that we can properly, carefully, whole heartedly and with a great self-confidence do the task we want to do. he explained us the real meaning of an “ENGINEER” that is creators. As a creator, an engineer creates various things to solve a problem in very quick and creative way. He also made us feel about how significant is an oppurtunity. He took out a 500 rupee note and ask all of us that whosever want that note can come forward and take the note with him/her. A boy raised his hand and came forward and took it and rest of us were shocked to see it. Then, sir illustrated that every oppurtunity, whether it is small or large, we should grab it on time. we all should be prepared for any kind of oppurtunity. Then one more alumna, S.Rajeshwar Singh Sidhu, SSP, Interacted with all of us with his wonderful experiences and stories. He emphasised the imporatnce of how GOD took test of all us and give us reward according to it throughout our life. He make us to feel it and told us to just keep your focus on yourself and keep improving yourself.
# DAY 2
I went to college. I went to the same Auditorium and took a seat. The program started with Mr. Arvind Dhingra sir, head of the Technical activities, pass out of NIT JAIPUR. He explained about how life is all about changing and growing and how will we all can transform. He said it could be done by “I”, which means by changing our mindset and perspective, we all can change and grow. He said that the best song of the world is our own heartbeat and start this college journey with GNDEC with a “YES” instead of a “NO” and have faith on this institution. He said that everyone is already good in their respective domains but we should try to be a great one and for that we should invest our time in extra curricular along with the regular curricular. He said, invest your time, instead of wasting it. And, by listening to this from sir, I decided to be a legendry who can be great in anything whether it is academics, sports or any other thing. Then, sir talked about stage fear and called some of the students to break their fear and convert it into confidence and a skill. Then, sir introduced us about “ Who is a Member”, there are four types: MEMBER ACTIVE MEMBER EXECUTIVE MEMBER OFFICE BEARER Then, he breifed us about the various socities: SCIE ISTE E2S2 SAE ISHRAE AMPE ASME CSI DATA SCIENCE CLUB IETE PFA PARWAY CLUB CAUSMIC CLUB LINE WIRE CLUB ENGLISH CLUB E-CELL & IIC and so on…… Then, he breifed about some of the competitons: HACK@GNE 3.0 IDEATHON CREATIVELO CHALLENGE SOLAR VEHICLE Then, at last, he ended the session by emphasising us about “3P’s of Life” Passion’ Persistence Patience After this session, One sir came and breifed us about the college, faculties, student council, scholarship and various more things. Then came a turning point for me and some of more students like me. Dr. Hardeep Singh Rai, The controller of examination, came to mentor all of us.First, he surveyed about how we all think about examinations in just one or two words. I wrote “ Challenge and Motivation”, i am saying this honestly because by these two words I got strength to overcome the fear of it. His perspective, strategies and vision on examinations was fascinating and inspirational. After, ending sessiion, he proposed all of us that they are giving a chance to 10 students to get mentored under him and get complete guidence about coding. Without any doubt, I went forward to sir to get this oppurtunity. But more that 50 students wanted to be a part of it. So, sir decided to make Telegram group and I entered the group. Sir gave us a task which was to make portfolio using markdown, which I partially completed at that time but now I have done it. And, by taking this goal, I came home and dedicatedly started doing it. I learned markdown and started making the project but I was unable to make my project live at Github pages. But, I sent a pdf format of my work. Then, my day ended and I was ready for the next day as my first day as classes was going to happen.
# DAY 3
The day began with the same routine and I went to college. Today, students have to attend their classes for the first time. Everyone checked their schedule which was sent it on Whatsapp group earlier. I reached outside the auditorium and went to the stairs side. I reached at first floor and then started finding my classroom. It was a very long corridor. Then, I found the classroom where my first lecture was going to held. The first lectures was taken by our seniors. In rhe lecture, they enlighten us about Chatgpt and Excel. Majorly, the Lecture was on Excel. They teached us variuos things about it, new functions about which I was also not aware earlier. Then after finishing, it they as our friend said that if we got in any trouble related to college or studies, we can contact them, ask them and get a solution from them. I personely really enjoyed it. Then, I went for my second lecture which was of mathematics, my faourite one. There I meet a faculty of mahtematics, Mr. Sanchit Mehra, assistant professor, applied sciences department. He was very good, cooperative adn humorous. He, introduced, himself and then ask to tell our names individually. Then, after introductuion process, he started teaching about derivatives. Then, the class got over. Then, I went to a canteen for lunch. After lunch, there was a breifing class of Rai sir. There he breifed us about how can we upload our file to Github and make a live link of it. I got a very good chance to correct my mistakes. Also, sir mentioned that however my task was not fully completed but my efforts were good enough. This made me feel so good and I decided that, by hook or crook, I will complete it. Then, finally, I completed it
# DAY 4
So, today was again our “INDUCTION PROGRAM”. The day started with the lecture of Dr. Randhir Singh sir, associate professor, breifed us about the major tasks which we all students have to do. He said that all the students must have to give Profficiency Test of English, Profficiency Test of Mathematics, Report making about your experience at GNDEC and INDUCTION PROGRAM and a E-certificate about any skill. These all tasks are useless for some people, but from my perspective, these all things can uplift are potential in a very good way. He also instructed us about the Github pages and how to make repositry on it in detail. he also mentioned about MARKDOWN. Then, Dr. Pyare Lal Garg, adviser to Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Garg, 73, who retired as professor of paediatric surgery in 2002 and is known for his outspoken nature, has worked both with the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) as well as Congress governments in Punjab. First, He greeted everyone with good wishes and blessings, also feel grateful to GNDEC and faculty members of the college for giving him the oppurtunity to speak in GNDEC college amongst the students. Seeing the students, he reminded his old days and said about teaching which was full of togetherness in his time. Many new changes have been implemented in the world but human behaviour is still same and ability and power of attaining courage to be great , not just to be good or average. He said that the tantrums, bad things and bad thoughts of people about us was in their time also which makes him to question his integrity. He mentioned that we all are same as all others both at mentally and physically but the thing which is the differentiater is the change we implant both in ourselve and in surroundings. By saying that now he will going to give us a piece of his all learnings, he started to resist his old stories which were inspirational and motivational.
# DAY 5
Our daily schedule was sent by the teachers which was about a hall event, but it was in the afternoon. I went towards the hall but I checked my phone and our schedule got changed. So, I went to classes according to the new schedule. And it was glad to know that it was a quiz competition at class level on aptitude. The quiz was really great and fun. I was consists of many sports related, author names related and a lot more. After that, there was a quiz based on English knowledge which was beyond my knowledge, which is why I was not able to participate properly but I enjoyed.
# DAY 6
Today, there was one maths class and one UHV class. So, I woke up early as usual and went to college. The first class, which was of maths, was taken by Sanchit sir, in the seminar hall. The seminar hall was well organised room and had good and comfortable furniture for the students. Sir taught us about integration. First, we recalled about basics of it and then practiced some questions on variuos types of integrations.
Then, our first lecture of UHV (Universal Human Values), taken by Rishi Kapoor sir, assistent professor. He introduced this subject first that what is UHV and how it is important. Then, He started the first topic which was “Human values/ Education/ Professional ethics. Then, He briefed us about how to answer a question of 10-15 marks. He also taught us “Understanding tha Harmony in family” and also about “Aspiration”. Then, there was a briefing class of Hardeep sir. After attending it, I went home.
# DAY 7
Today, There were both classes and induction program was going to held First section of day was in classes. The first lecture was of UHV by Rishi sir. He taught us about: Understanding the Human Being Briefing About “Self Body” Activities Of Self Body Response Of Self And Body Gross Misunderstanding Understanding Harmony In Self State Of Imagination
Then, there was our peer interaction of “CANVA”. Canva is a free graphic design platform that’s great for making invitations, business cards, Instagram posts, and more. A drag and drop interface makes customizing thousands of templates simple and easy. Canva’s wide array of features allow you to edit photos without extensive photo editing knowledge or experience. Seniors briefed us about various features of canva. Then, they told us to make a post on our own and upload on to a google form given by them. I made a post using canva
# DAY 8
Today, there was induction day as well as the first visit to my department, that is, CSE department. So, I went to college with a few content of excitement. First, there was induction program. The first speaker of the program was Kanwardeep Kalra, senior software engineer from March 2011-present 13yrs 5 months in Gurgaon, analyst programmer from Jul 2008 - Feb 2011 in Mumbai area, done bachelor’s degree in computer science from G.Z.S.C.E.T. from 2004-2008, done schooling from DAV Public school, Ludhiana from 1990-2004.
They started with a play of interview Then, our next speaker was Pr. Jaswinder singh, incharge of IAPT. Sir, greeted all of us with Sat Sri Akal and taught us the meaning of it. There was a World Record entered by Asia Book of Records, 2nd time in 2023, conducted under Jaswinder sir.He suggested to learn to get control on ourselves and never be a slave of anything, anymore. We should think about ourselves first then think about others. He also teached us how can we count our all bones in our body. He showed us new techniques about tables to learn them in a unique way. He conclude by saying that we need to have balance in life which can learn from mathematics. Then, there was our department visit after the lunch break. So, me and rest of the students went to the CSE department. Teachers sent to us to different classes section wise. Then, there was a sir who briefed us about various things of the department and history. Then, many teachers came to meet us and then, HOD mam came in our class, Dr. Kiran Jyoti, Associate Professor and Head of Department of Computer Science and Engineering. It was really great feeling for me to see the department. So the day ended with this and I came back home.
DAY 9

